# Contributing

Thank you for your interest in contributing to this project!

## Dependencies

There are a few additional dependencies needed when contributing to this project. You can install them with `./install.sh --extra`.


## Build System

You will need to edit `splat.yaml` and re-run `./configure` in certain circumstances, among which are the changing of source file names, the creation or deletion of source files, and migrating data from a .data.s file into c. If you `git pull` and `ninja` breaks, you probably need to re-run `./configure`.

If you use Visual Studio Code, you can use _Run Build Task_ (Ctrl+Shift+B) to run `ninja`. Any errors or warnings generated by the compiler will show up in the _Problems_ tab.


## Tutorial: Matching a function

### Setup

Once you've created a successful (`OK`) build, run

```sh
./make_expected.sh
```

to copy `ver/us/build/` to `ver/us/expected/build/`.

### Roughly converting assembly to C

Decide on a function to match. These can be found in the subdirectories of `ver/us/asm/nonmatchings/`. Also find the `.c` file that uses the function (it will have the function name in an `INCLUDE_ASM`).

Most of the time you will want to generate a context file that defines all the project-specific structs and function prototypes, as well as information specific to the file. You can make this file by running

```sh
./tools/m2ctx.py <path/to/c_file.c>
```

(replace the contents of the `<>` by the actual path to the file from the repository root!); this will make a file called `ctx.c` in the repository's root directory.

Take the relevant `.s` file and pass it to [mips_to_c](https://github.com/matt-kempster/mips_to_c) ([online version](https://simonsoftware.se/other/mips_to_c.py)). Both versions work essentially the same way.

- if you want to use a local version, clone the repository into a separate directory in `papermario`s parent directory, read the documentation, and run it with `../mips_to_c/mips_to_c.py <path/to/func_asm.s>` from the root of the `papermario` repository. You pass the context file with `--context ctx.c`. Run with `-h` to see more options.
- the web version has two boxes: you paste the contents of the assembly file into the top box and the contents of the context file into the lower box.

(The web version is easier to use to start with, but you'll probably find that the local version is more efficient once you get used to it.)

Open up the `.c` file that uses your function and replace the function's `INCLUDE_ASM` macro with the output from mips_to_c. For example, for a function `asm/nonmatchings/FOO/func_DEADBEEF`:

```diff
  // src/FOO.c
- INCLUDE_ASM("FOO", func_DEADBEEF);
+ s32 func_DEADBEEF() {
+    // ...
+ }
```

Recompile the ROM:

```sh
ninja
```

This will probably end up either `FAIL`ing (the resulting ROM does not match the baserom), or the compilation of the C file you just modified did not succeed. mips_to_c loves to use void pointers and weird syntax that won't compile properly. Fixing this will involve typing the function signature correctly, which you may find in [Star Rod's library database](https://github.com/nanaian/star-rod/blob/master/database/common_func_library.lib). For structs, see [common_structs.h](include/common_structs.h).

Once the C file compiles, you can compare the assembly generated by your code versus the original assembly with the following command, replacing `function_name` with the name of the function you're working on:

```sh
./diff.py -mwo function_name
```

(Sometimes, `-mwo` doesn't work. We don't know why yet; use `-mw` if you encounter issues.)

`diff.py` displays the difference between the original game's assembly (on the left) and what your C code generated (on the right). If you want to compare with the last saved version as well, you can use `-3` to get a three-column diff of the original (left), current (middle), and previous (right). Passing `-b` instead of `-3` gives a three-way diff of original, current, and the version from when `diff.py` was started. Run `./diff.py -h` to see other flags and options.

### Matching the function

You're on your own now. Get your C code compiling to match the original assembly! `diff.py`, when running with `-m`, will automatically recompile your code whenever you save the `.c` file.

If you use Visual Studio Code, you can use _Run Test Task_ to run `diff.py` and show you errors and warnings from the compiler inline. (You might want to attach _Run Test Task_ to a keybinding, as you'll be using it often.)

If you have any questions or encounter any issues, we suggest:

- Reaching out [on Discord](https://discord.gg/urUm3VG)
- Using [decomp permuter](https://github.com/simonlindholm/decomp-permuter) if your code is logically equivalent
- Wrapping what you have in `#ifdef NON_MATCHING` (see other examples of this in the codebase) and trying a smaller function

### After matching

Once you've matched a function, run the following:

```sh
./coverage.py --delete-matched
```

Then, go ahead and [create a pull request](https://github.com/pmret/papermario/pulls)!
