INSTALL.md, before:

# Setup

This repository supports:

- [Linux](#unix)
- [macOS](#unix)
- [Windows Subsystem for Linux 2](#wsl-2)
- [Docker](#docker) (any host OS)

If you encounter any issues setting up the repo, please feel free to [reach out to us on Discord](https://discord.gg/urUm3VG).


## Unix

Clone the repository:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/pmret/papermario
cd papermario
```

Install build dependencies:
```sh
./install.sh
```

Copy an unmodified Paper Mario (USA) ROM (sha1: `3837f44cda784b466c9a2d99df70d77c322b97a0`) into the root directory of the repository with the name `baserom.z64`. If you're using WSL, you can enter the Linux filesystem by opening `\\wsl$` in File Explorer; e.g. `\\wsl$\Ubuntu\home\<your username>\papermario`.

Configure the build and extract assets from the base ROM:
```sh
./configure
```

Compile the game:
```
ninja
```

If you get `papermario.z64: OK` at the end, the build succeeded!

The output ROM is `papermario.z64` - you can run this in any N64 emulator.


## WSL 2

1. Install or upgrade to **WSL 2** following [these instructions](https://aka.ms/wsl2-install) (Ubuntu is recommended)
2. Open a WSL terminal
3. Run the following command: `sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade && cd ~`
4. Continue with [the instructions for Linux](#unix)

If you have Visual Studio Code, you can type `code .` to open the repo within it.
`Ctrl + J` opens up a Linux terminal within VS Code.


## Docker

A Docker image containing all dependencies can be built and ran as follows:
```sh
docker build . -t pm
docker run --rm -ti -v $(pwd):/papermario pm
```

Then continue with [the instructions for Linux](#unix).

Commit message:

Fix many compiler & linker warnings (#281)
* fix ld warnings

* fix NpcSettings warn

* get_screen_coords

* various

* bloop

* update INSTALL.md for versioned baseroms

INSTALL.md, after:

# Setup

This repository supports:

- [Linux](#unix)
- [macOS](#unix)
- [Windows Subsystem for Linux 2](#wsl-2)
- [Docker](#docker) (any host OS)

If you encounter any issues setting up the repo, please feel free to [reach out to us on Discord](https://discord.gg/urUm3VG).


## Unix

Clone the repository:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/pmret/papermario
cd papermario
```

Install build dependencies:
```sh
./install.sh
```

Copy baseroms into the following places (at least 1 is required):

* `ver/us/baserom.z64` (sha1: `3837f44cda784b466c9a2d99df70d77c322b97a0`)
* `ver/jp/baserom.z64` (sha1: `b9cca3ff260b9ff427d981626b82f96de73586d3`)

(If you're using WSL, you can enter the Linux filesystem by opening `\\wsl$` in File Explorer; e.g. `\\wsl$\Ubuntu\home\<your username>\papermario`.)

Configure the build and extract assets from the base ROM:
```sh
./configure
```

Compile the game:
```
ninja
```

If you get `papermario.z64: OK` at the end, the build succeeded!

The output ROM is `papermario.z64` - you can run this in any N64 emulator.


## WSL 2

1. Install or upgrade to **WSL 2** following [these instructions](https://aka.ms/wsl2-install) (Ubuntu is recommended)
2. Open a WSL terminal
3. Run the following command: `sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade && cd ~`
4. Continue with [the instructions for Linux](#unix)

If you have Visual Studio Code, you can type `code .` to open the repo within it.
`Ctrl + J` opens up a Linux terminal within VS Code.


## Docker

A Docker image containing all dependencies can be built and ran as follows:
```sh
docker build . -t pm
docker run --rm -ti -v $(pwd):/papermario pm
```

Then continue with [the instructions for Linux](#unix).
