Readme.md, before:

# Paper Mario Decompilation

## Setup
### Requirements
You'll need Linux or Windows 10 (WSL) to work on this project.

### Dependencies
* *mips-linux-gnu binutils: You may be able to just download this via your package manager (`sudo apt install binutils-mips-linux-gnu`), or you'll have to build it yourself. (guide todo)


#### Ubuntu and co (easy mode):
For a quick and easy way to install all relevant decomp-related tools on Ubuntu and other similar distros, 
```
sudo apt install -y binutils-mips-linux-gnu build-essential pkg-config python3 python3-pip wget git clang-tidy clang-format nano vbindiff zlib1g-dev libyaml-dev libcapstone-dev
```

#### Building mips-linux-gnu
todo

### Fork and clone the repo
Click the "fork" button in the top right corner of the main repo's webpage (https://github.com/ethteck/papermario) to fork this repo to your own GitHub account. After this, clone the repo to your computer via the command below:

`git clone https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/papermario.git`

### The Rom
You'll need a US Paper Mario rom to work on this project. Copy it into the root directory of the repository with the name `baserom.z64`.

### Make setup
run `make setup` to set up tools and extract the rom

### Make
run `make` to rebuild the rom. Get `OK`? If so, you're all set! Otherwise, please feel free to reach out to us in the discord.

## FAQ
* `make setup` failed with this error? One of the packages from the _Ubuntu and co (easy mode)_ script did not install correctly. Try to run as sudo `sudo su`, run the script again and append `--fix-missing` to it.
```
/bin/bash: mips-linux-gnu-as: command not found
Makefile:92: recipe for target 'build/asm/boot.o' failed
make: *** [build/asm/boot.o] Error 127
```

* `make` failed with this error? This is a Windows line ending issue run `git checkout checksum.sha1` to fix it.
```
sha1sum -c checksum.sha1
sha1sum: 'papermario.z64'$'\r': No such file or directory
: FAILED open or read
sha1sum: WARNING: 1 listed file could not be read
Makefile:118: recipe for target 'verify' failed
make: *** [verify] Error 1
```

Commit message:

Update FAQ problem and solution order
* Feedback from this [comment](https://github.com/ethteck/papermario/pull/2#issuecomment-673270326) on suggested order.

Readme.md, after:

# Paper Mario Decompilation

## Setup
### Requirements
You'll need Linux or Windows 10 (WSL) to work on this project.

### Dependencies
* *mips-linux-gnu binutils: You may be able to just download this via your package manager (`sudo apt install binutils-mips-linux-gnu`), or you'll have to build it yourself. (guide todo)


#### Ubuntu and co (easy mode):
For a quick and easy way to install all relevant decomp-related tools on Ubuntu and other similar distros, 
```
sudo apt install -y binutils-mips-linux-gnu build-essential pkg-config python3 python3-pip wget git clang-tidy clang-format nano vbindiff zlib1g-dev libyaml-dev libcapstone-dev
```

#### Building mips-linux-gnu
todo

### Fork and clone the repo
Click the "fork" button in the top right corner of the main repo's webpage (https://github.com/ethteck/papermario) to fork this repo to your own GitHub account. After this, clone the repo to your computer via the command below:

`git clone https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/papermario.git`

### The Rom
You'll need a US Paper Mario rom to work on this project. Copy it into the root directory of the repository with the name `baserom.z64`.

### Make setup
run `make setup` to set up tools and extract the rom

### Make
run `make` to rebuild the rom. Get `OK`? If so, you're all set! Otherwise, please feel free to reach out to us in the discord.

## FAQ
* If you received the following error when running `make setup`: 
```
/bin/bash: mips-linux-gnu-as: command not found
Makefile:92: recipe for target 'build/asm/boot.o' failed
make: *** [build/asm/boot.o] Error 127
```
> 💡 Solution
>
> One of the packages from the _Ubuntu and co (easy mode)_ script did not install correctly. Elevate your user permissions using `sudo su`, run the script again and append `--fix-missing` to it.
> 


* If you received the following error when running  `make`:
```
sha1sum -c checksum.sha1
sha1sum: 'papermario.z64'$'\r': No such file or directory
: FAILED open or read
sha1sum: WARNING: 1 listed file could not be read
Makefile:118: recipe for target 'verify' failed
make: *** [verify] Error 1
```
> 💡 Solution
>
> This is a Windows line ending issue run `git checkout checksum.sha1` to fix it.
